.\" 
.\" build_multilib_wine.conf is the configuration file for the build_multilib_wine build script
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Robert Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\" 
.TH "BUILD_MULTILIB_WINE.CONF" "5" "03 Jun 2019"
.SH "NAME"
build_multilib_wine.conf \- custom settings for controlling the build_multilib_wine
script
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fB${HOME}/.config/build_multilib_wine/build_multilib_wine.conf\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

This file contains various variables that are used, by the build_multilib_wine
script, to change the default settings for any operation. The file has a
newline\-delimited list of \fI<key>=<value>\fR pairs. To generate a basic:
\fB${HOME}/.config/build_multilib_wine/build_multilib_wine.conf\fR
file, with defaults indicated (commented out), use:
build_multilib_wine generate_conf
which will write a generic version of the (above) file.
.br
\fINote:\fR \fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR will pre-parse the \fBbuild_multilib_wine.conf\fR
testing that all variables are defined correctly (via various regex tests, etc.).
.br
build_multilib_wine will check for settings/value overrides in the following order of precedence:
.SS (1)
env variables,
.SS (2)
build_multilib_wine.conf configuration,
.SS (3)
build_multilib_wine: command-line options,
.TP
.SS \fRwhere: \fB(1)\fR=lowest priority ... \fB(3)\fR=highest priority.
.br
.SH "VARIABLES"
.TP
\fBBUILD_ROOT\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Root directory where the binary builds are stored - "out-of-tree" build.
By default, log files are stored in a subdirectory of the \fBBUILD_ROOT\fR directory.
.br
Defaults to: \fBBUILD_ROOT\fR="\fI${HOME}/Wine/Build\fR"
.TP
\fBCOLOUR\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" ]
Select whether to colourise, or not, all terminal and log output.
.br
Defaults to: \fBCOLOUR\fR="\fIfalse\fR"
.TP
\fBLOG_COMPRESSION\fR=[ "\fIzip2\fR" | "\fIgzip\fR" | "\fIlzma\fR" | "\fIlzop\fR" | "\fInone\fR" | "\fIlz4\fR" | "\fIxz\fR" ]
Compression to be applied to new log files. Log files are only compressed, when
the script is exiting. Supported compression algorithms are listed above.
.br
Defaults to: \fBLOG_COMPRESSION\fR="\fIxz\fR"
.TP
\fBLOG_DIRECTORY\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Directory, in which to store log files. The log files record all script output.
.br
Defaults to: \fBLOG_DIRECTORY\fR="\fI${HOME}/Wine/Build/Logs\fR"
.TP
\fBLOGGING\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" ]
Enable or disable logging, of all script output. Only applies to build and chroot commands.
.br
Defaults to: \fBLOGGING\fR="\fItrue\fR"
.TP
\fBLSB_CODENAME\fR="\fILSB codename\fR"
OS release override (e.g. cross-building for another Debian / Ubuntu version).
.br
Defaults to: \fBLSB_CODENAME\fR="\fI$(lsb_release -sc)\fR"
.TP
\fBPREFIX\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Installation prefix directory in which Wine libraries, binaries, etc. are installed.
.br
Defaults to: \fBPREFIX\fR="\fI${HOME}/usr\fR"
.TP
\fBSOURCE_ROOT\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Root directory where sources are stored i.e. clones of Wine (and Wine-Staging) Git trees.
.br
Defaults to: \fBSOURCE_ROOT\fR="\fI$${HOME}/Wine/Source\fR"
.TP
\fBTHREADS\fR=\fICPU thread count\fR
Number of processor threads to use, when compiling. Used by \fBWINE_MAKE_OPTIONS\fR.
.br
Defaults to: \fBTHREADS\fR=\fIhardware CPU threads+1\fR
.TP
\fBUSER_PATCH_DIRECTORIES\fR=( \fIdirectory\fR(0) [ ... \fIdirectory\fR(N) ] )
Array of one (or more) directories containing "non-official" user patch files.
.br
Additional array entries can be added using:
.br
    \fBUSER_PATCH_DIRECTORIES\fR+=( \fIdirectory\fR(N+1) [ ... \fIdirectory\fR(M) ] )
.br
\fINote:\fR patches must formatted in a -p1 diff format).
.br
Defaults to: \fBUSER_PATCH_DIRECTORIES\fR=\fInone\fR
.TP
\fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" ]
Specifies where the wine-addons: \fIwine-gecko\fR , \fIwine-mono\fR ; will be installed to.
.br
\fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=1 : install wine-addons relative to the user \fIHOME\fR directory ( "\fI${HOME%/}${WINE_ADDON_GLOBAL_RELPATH%/}\fR" )
.br
\fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=0 : install wine-addons relative to the Wine installation path ( "\fI${PREFIX%/}/${WINE_ADDON_RELPATH#/}\fR" )
.br
Using: \fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=1 ; allows wine-addons to be shared between different Wine installations.
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR="\fI${WINE_ADDON_GLOBAL}\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL_RELPATH\fR=\fIrelative directory path\fR
Specifies the install path for wine-addons: \fIwine-gecko\fR , \fIwine-mono\fR ; activated with: \fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=1.
.br
\fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL_RELPATH\fR specifies a path relative to: "\fI${HOME%/}\fR".
.br
It is not recommended to change this variable, as Wine has fixed paths, which are searched for addons.
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL_RELPATH\fR="\fI${WINE_ADDON_GLOBAL_RELPATH}\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_ADDON_RELPATH\fR=\fIrelative directory path\fR
.br
Specifies the install path for wine-addons: \fIwine-gecko\fR , \fIwine-mono\fR ; activated with: \fBWINE_ADDON_GLOBAL\fR=0.
.br
\fBWINE_ADDON_RELPATH\fR specifies a path relative to: "\fI${PREFIX%/}\fR".
.br
It is not recommended to change this variable, as Wine has fixed paths, which are searched for addons.
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_ADDON_RELPATH\fR="\fI${WINE_ADDON_RELPATH}\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_BRANCH\fR=\fIgit-branch\fR
Wine git branch to build against. This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is disabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fIfalse\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fIfalse\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_BRANCH\fR="\fIrefs/heads/master\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_CFLAGS\fR=\fICFLAGS argument (configure script)\fR
CFLAGS ('C' compiler flags) to pass to Wine configure script.
[src-configure]
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_CFLAGS\fR="\fI-march=native -mtune=native\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_COMMIT\fR=\fIgit-commit\fR
Wine git commit to build against. This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is disabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fIfalse\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fIfalse\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_COMMIT\fR=\fInone\fR
.TP
\fBWINE_CONFIGURATION\fR="\fIconfigure options\fR"
Specify options to pass to the Wine configuration phase.
[src-configure]
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_CONFIGURATION\fR="\fI--without-hal --without-v4l --without-oss\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_MAKE_OPTIONS\fR=\fIarguments to make command\fR
Make options to pass to the make command, when compiling wine.
[src-compile]
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_MAKE_OPTIONS\fR="-j\fI$((THREADS+1))"
.TP
\fBWINE_STAGING\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" ]
A build phase (only) option that specifies whether we wish to apply (or not) the Wine Staging patchsets.
.br
The default is to apply all the Wine Staging patchsets, with some (optional) Wine Staging patchset exclusions specified by:
.br
\fBWINE_STAGING_EXCLUDE\fR=... (see below, for more information about this option)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="0"
.TP
\fBWINE_STAGING_BRANCH\fR=\fIgit-branch\fR
Wine-Staging git branch to build against. This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is enabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fItrue\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fItrue\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_STAGING_BRANCH\fR="\fIrefs/heads/master\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_STAGING_COMMIT\fR=\fIgit-commit\fR
Wine-Staging git commit to build against. This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is enabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fItrue\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fItrue\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_STAGING_COMMIT\fR=\fI<none>\fR
.TP
\fBWINE_STAGING_EXCLUDE\fR=\fIpatchset\fR(1) [ ... \fIpatchset\fR(N) ]
Name(s) of specific Wine-Staging patchset(s), to optionally disable.
[src-prepare]
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_STAGING_EXCLUDE\fR="\fIconfigure-OSMesa winhlp32-Flex_Workaround\fR"
.TP
\fBWINE_STAGING_VERSION\fR=\fInumeric-version\fR
Wine-Staging version to build. Specified as a wine-staging release version (without the git tag prefix).
.br
This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is enabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fItrue\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fItrue\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_STAGING_VERSION\fR=\fInone\fR
.TP
\fBWINE_VERSION\fR=\fInumeric-version\fR
Wine version to build. Specified as a wine release version (without the git tag prefix).
.br
This variable applies only during build commands.
.br
Requires that the Wine Staging patchset is disabled, for the current Wine build:
.br
    \fBWINE_STAGING\fR="\fIfalse\fR"   (configuration option)
.br
    \fB--wine-staging\fR="\fIfalse\fR" (build option, command line argument)
.br
Defaults to: \fBWINE_VERSION\fR=\fInone\fR
.TP
\fBWORKING_PATCHES_DIRECTORY\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Directory to store additional stock Wine patches.
.br
Defaults to: \fBWORKING_PATCHES_DIRECTORY\fR="\fI${HOME}/Wine/Source/patches\fR"
.br
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report issues at: <\fIhttps://github.com/bobwya/build-multilib-wine/issues\fR>
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf
Written by Robert Walker <bob.mt.wya@gmail.com>
.fi
.SH "FILES"
.TP
\fI${HOME}/.config/build_multilib_wine/build_multilib_wine.conf\fR
Contains variables for controlling the operation of the build_multilib_wine script.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
.BR build_multilib_wine (1).
