.\" 
.\" build_multilib_wine is multilib Wine (& Wine Staging) build script
.\" 
.\" Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Robert Walker
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\" 
.TH BUILD_MULTILIB_WINE 1 "03 Jun 2019".SH NAME
\fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR \- monolithic BASH script to build multilib Wine, from source, on Debian or Ubuntu™
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR [ \fB--colour\fR=... ] [ \fB--logging\fR=... ] [ \fB--log-compression\fR... ] [\fB--log-directory\fR=... ] [ *\fIOPTION (build phase)\fR [ ... *\fIOPTION (build phase)\fR ] ] [--] [ \fBsrc-fetch\fR ] [ \fBsrc-prepare\fR ] [ \fBsrc-configure\fR ] [ \fBsrc-compile\fR ] [ \fBsrc-install\fR ] | \fBbuild-all\fR
.br
\fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR [ \fB--colour\fR=... ] [--] \fBgenerate-conf\fR
.br
\fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR [ \fB--colour\fR=... ] [ \fB--logging\fR=... ] [ \fB--log-compression\fR... ] [\fB--log-directory\fR=... ] [--] \fBsetup-chroot\fR | \fBupgrade-chroot\fR
.br
\fBbuild_multilib_wine\fR [ \fB--colour\fR=... ] [--] \fBversion\fR
.SS \fI*OPTION (build phase)\fR :
.br
[ \fB--build-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR ]  [ \fB--patch-directory\fR "\fIdirectory\fR(1)" [ ... \fB--patch-directory "\fIdirectory\fR(N)" ] ]  [ \fB--source-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR ]  [ \fB--prefix\fR \fIdirectory\fR ] 
.br
\fB--wine-staging\fR="\fIno\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" | "\fI0\fR"  [ \fB--wine-branch\fR=\fIgit-branch\fR         | \fB--wine-commit\fR="\fIcommit-hash\fR"         | \fB--wine-version\fR=\fInumeric-version\fR         ] 
.br
\fB--wine-staging\fR="\fIyes\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fI1\fR"  [ \fB--wine-staging-branch\fR=\fIgit-branch\fR | \fB--wine-staging-commit\fR="\fIcommit-hash\fR" | \fB--wine-staging-version\fR=\fInumeric-version\fR ] 
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page describes the
.BR build_multilib_wine
command.
.br
The 
.BR build_multilib_wine
script can be used to build Wine, or Wine Staging, with the option
to specify multiple directories of additional user patchsets. The script supports building
Wine on the Debian and Ubuntu™ Linux distributions (Ubuntu™-derivatives, like Linux-Mint,
are also supported). The script uses dual chroot (Schroot) environments (32-bit and 64-bit).
.P
.BR build_multilib_wine 
supports various simple commands. \fI Note:\fR build phase options can only be combined with build commands.
.br
.SS Exit status:
.TP
0
if OK (successful execution),
.TP
1
if any error occurs during execution.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global
.TP
\fB\-\-colour\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" ]"
Select whether terminal output and logs are colourised or not.
.TP
\fB\-\-logging\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" ]"
Select whether all terminal output is written to a time/date-stamped log file.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-compression\fR=[ "\fIbzip2\fR" | "\fIgzip\fR" | "\fIlzma\fR" | "\fIlzop\fR" | "\fInone\fR" | "\fIlz4\fR" | "\fIxz\fR" ]
Select whether all terminal output is written to a time/date-stamped log file.
.TP
\fB\-\-log\-directory\fR=\fIdirectory\fR
Use the specified directory, to store the log file, for the current command.
.SS Build Phases (only)
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-staging\fR=[ "\fIyes\fR" | "\fIno\fR" | "\fItrue\fR" | "\fIfalse\fR" | "\fI1\fR" | "\fI0\fR" ]"
Select whether to build Wine or Wine Staging.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-branch\fR=\fIgit\-branch\fR
Select the Wine git branch to build.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-commit\fR=\fIcommit\-hash\fR
Select a specific Wine git commit to build against.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-version\fR=\fInumeric\-version\fR
Select a specific Wine version to build.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-staging\-branch\fR=\fIgit\-branch\fR
Select the Wine Staging git branch to build.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-staging\-commit\fR=\fIcommit\-hash\fR
Select a specific Wine Staging git commit to build against.
.TP
\fB\-\-wine\-staging\-version\fR=\fInumeric\-version\fR
Select a specific Wine Staging version to build.
.TP
\fB\-\-build\-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Select the root build directory (stores Wine build trees and log files)
.TP
\fB\-\-patch\-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR(1) [ ... \fB\-\-patch\-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR(N) ]
Specify a directory (or directories) containing user patches.
.TP
\fB\-\-source\-directory\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Select the root source directory (stores generic/stock patches, Wine and Wine Staging git trees)
.TP
\fB\-\-prefix\fR \fIdirectory\fR
Specify a target root directory, in which to install the multilib Wine build.
.br
\fINote\fR: this must be a subdirectory of the user's "\fIHOME\fR" directory.
.br
The \fIHOME\fR directory is a writeable mountpoint, accessible within both Schroot environments.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR generate-conf
Generate a stock configuration file for build_multilib_wine.
The default location for this newly created configuration file, is:
.br
.I  \*(lq${HOME}/.config/build_multilib_wine/build_multilib_wine.conf\*(rq
.TP
.BI setup-chroot
Setup the 32-bit and 64-bit (Schroot) Chroot Environments.
This command also installs the Debian / Ubuntu™ base development libraries for Wine, in the dual Chroot Environments.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.TP
.BI upgrade-chroot
Upgrade the packages installed to the 32-bit and 64-bit (Schroot) Chroot Environments.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (1)-(5)
.TP
.B build-all
.br
Meta-command, alias for the sequence of commands: \fBsrc-fetch\fR \fBsrc-prepare\fR \fBsrc-configure\fR \fBsrc-compile\fR \fBsrc-install\fR
.br
(for further information, see below)
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (1)
.TP
.B src-fetch
.br
Run the (git) source fetch phase, for wine, and wine-staging, git trees.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (2)
.TP
.B src-prepare
.br
Run source prepare phase. During this phase, base patches are applied and (BASH/sed) configuration file alterations are made.
In addition, during this phase, the Wine Staging patchset and any (specified) user patchsets are applied.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (3)
.TP
.B src-configure
.br
Run source configure phase. This phase is executed once in 32-bit Chroot environment: wine32-tools ; and once in the 64-bit Chroot environment: wine64
.br
\fINote\fR: running the configure phase for the 32-bit Chroot: wine32 ; is deferred to the end of the next (src-compile) phase.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (4)
.TP
.B src-compile
.br
Run source compile phase. This phase is executed once in 32-bit Chroot environment: wine32-tools ; and once in the 64-bit Chroot environment: wine64
The (deferred) configure phase for the 32-bit Chroot directory: wine32 ; is run first in this phase. Then the build directory: wine32 ; is compiled.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.SS (5)
.TP
.B src-install
.br
Run source install phase. This phase is executed once for the 32-bit Chroot environment: wine32 ; and once for the 64-bit Chroot environment directory: wine64
.br
\fINote\fR: the install prefix must be a subdirectory of the user's \fIHOME\fR directory.
This is because the \fIHOME\fR directory is a writeable mountpoint, accessible within both Schroot environments.
.br
\fINote\fR: this command runs as \fBroot\fR.
.TP
.BI version
Display the script version and exit.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Robert Walker <bob.mt.wya@gmail.com>
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Please report issues at: <\fIhttps://github.com/bobwya/build-multilib-wine/issues\fR>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR build_multilib_wine.conf (5).
